---
layout: post
title:      "Why I Am Becomming A Programmer"
date:       2017-10-04 01:42:22 +0000
permalink:  why_i_am_becomming_a_programmer
---


It’s an interesting exercise to ask oneself why they are choosing a profession that they will hopefully be doing for the next 30ish years. It’s even more interesting when one can juxtapose this exercise against how they choose their first profession so I guess I’ll start there. When I graduated high school I had enough trouble figuring out what I wanted to do the next day let alone the next 50 years. I doubt I was unique in that regard. Afterall, how can you know what you want to do when you have never really done anything in the first place? With that being the case I did what everyone had allways told me to do; I went to college. When you get to college the first thing you have to do is decide what classes to take which is another way of asking what do you want to be? Problem is that the mere act of me enrolling for college didn’t magically make the answer to the question any more clear than it was before I enrolled. The even bigger problem was that I was now paying a lot of money so take these classes so I had to choose something. I am ashamed to admit that my choice boiled down to nothing more than deciding to take classes that my friends were in. In other words I friends choose for me without realizing I was. Fast forward five years and I was the proud owner of a double major in finance and economics and 24k in student loans. 
	Hindsight being 20/20 I should have just gone to work at entry level jobs in various professions until I better understand what I wanted to do the rest of my life. Then I would be able to efficiently and effectively pursue any credentialing needed. Here is why, no matter what people tell you about a profession (or anything really) you won’t really know if you’ll like until you have tried it. In college they spoke of the efficiencies inherit in a market entity. They spoke of a constant evolution, creative destruction, and the never ending pursuit of innovation. Although these tenants might hold theoretical truths to them and maybe even practical truths at a select few visionary companies the truth is that the vast majorities of companies are only concerned with maintaining the status quo. The owners are happy with where they are at and would rather stay there than have to exert the effort or add the risk of trying something new. The business world is best described as stasis. I have a feeling that if I were to interview 1,000 business people and had them write down what they did today for 10 consecutive days less than 1% of the respondents answers would differ day to day. There is no constant innovation. There is no constant pursuit of efficiencies. All there is is a crippling inertia that preserves the stasis.
	That is the reality I have found myself trapped in the last 12 years. The good news is that I could now answer what I wanted to do (the bad news is that it took me 5 years of college, 24k of debt and 12 years of frustrated employment to get here). After sitting down and trying to figure out what I didn’t like about my current job I came up two main things. The first (and probably most important although just slightly) is that I wanted a job that would allow me to constantly learn new things. The never ending pursuit of innovation my business school professors promised. The second is I want to work in a field that is as obsessed with efficiencies and refinement as I am. The constant evolutionary process my business school professors promised.
	Having now gained that understanding of myself it was a short walk to land on programming. Programmers are constantly evolving and trying to find new tools or frameworks to better achieve their goals and tasks. There probably isn’t another profession on earth that is collectively more obsessed with not only evolving with new technologies and frameworks but also searching for the most efficient and effective manner in which to attack their current problem with given their current constraints. It’s an exciting prospect knowing that I very well might be standing at the gateway of future that will allow me to constantly evolve and learn professionally.
