---
layout: post
title:  "Simple Command Line App & the Joy that Follows"
date:   2017-09-21 20:58:04 +0000
---

It feels odd to be so happy about such a trivial app that most likely will never provide anyone real utility but I assure you there is a happiness that comes with it. And it is a different kind of happiness than I get from seeing the “Run local tests” light turn green on a normal lab which is also a very real form of happiness too. I am sure this comes from the fact that the command line app’s is born from entirely my own imagination. It reminds me of a passage I read from the book A Man for All Markets which is the autobiography of Edward O. Thorp who happens to be my favorite investor of all time. While he was in college and before he got into investing he became obsessed with the idea that blackjack was beatable. He went on to both mathematically prove that it was theoretically beatable and also create a practical system to use his proof in real life to beat the dealer. The gist of the passage though was him describing his state of mind after proving it was beatable (when everyone including  Richard Feynman told him it wasn’t). He said that he feel in love with the idea that he could sit in a room and using nothing more than his mind solve a problem that others had said to be impossible. He said he was hooked from that day on and knew that he wanted to work with his mind like that going forward. All though I doubt there is anyone out there that would be naive enough to think a simple as a CLI app for scraping insider buy/sell info is impossible (some would probably question why anyone should care) there is still a correlation between the two. Both creations were wrought by nothing more than a person sitting in a room and thinking (basically). Now his idea went on to become the basis for a book that became a bestseller which was then copied by some people at MIT to make millions which in turn was turned into a blockbuster movie a few years back and mine will probably lay dormant in a github repo rightfully ignored by the world at large but other than that I am going to call the totally the same.

As for the app you can find it here https://github.com/lqf2b8/insider-trading-cli-app if you have a few minutes to kill and want to give it a look. Pretty simple stuff. It fires a CLI class that calls a Stock class which prompts the user for a ticker. Then it takes the ticker sets a couple URL variables and passes itself to a Scraper class. The scraper class uses the URL variables to know what to scrape and finishes setting the remainging Stock object attributes before passing it back to the stock method which finally passes it back to the CLI class to puts everything out. Nothing paradigm shifting there but I am still ear to ear over it.

I really only had two head scratchers while coding it. The first was right off the bat when I was designing the CLI interface. I knew I needed to prompt the user for a ticker so I was originally doing it from the CLI class. I was then having a hard time trying to see how it would get passed to the Stock class since there really wasn’t an instance of the CLI class to pass. Then I remembered that an object should contain all of it’s data and functionality to do it’s job and nothing else lecture from one of the Avi videos. This made me realize that a ticker was not an attribute of a CLI but rather an attribute of a Stock so I really shouldn’t be trying to “gets” it in the CLI. After that it was smooth sailing until I got to the Scraper. The website had some weird HTML that took some trial and error to both scrape and reformat. Let me know if you have any questions or suggestions.
